Digital Subsystem Structure
Joseph A De Vico
8/24/2023


This structure begins at the ADC and ends at data output. CMOS (3V3) logic levels are assumed.

The digital subsystem must collect, organize, and process a high number of input data channels.

For practical purposes (predominantly cost and time) the channels planned for will be limited
to 4. The hardware structure will consist of the RP2040 MCU and the LTC2324-12 ADC (or equivalent.)

At these high datarates simultaneously sampling ADCs are intended for use with CPLD/FPGA/DSP (in the
Blackshark processor sense) systems instead of microcontrollers, and typically offer parallel serial
data outputs that are difficult to process with standard microcontrollers.
The RP2040 PIO system allows some bandwidth in the ability to dynamically form a 4x SPI compliant
interface such that external glue logic isn't required.

As such the PIO must be able to:
- Trigger off the CLKOUT of the ADC
- Read in 4 channels worth of data
- Preform the 4 read words
- Pass data thru output FIFO

At the output FIFO and ISR triggered DMA handling chain will move this data into preallocated arrays.
There will be 2 of these arrays preallocated, the start addresses of which are offered to the DMA in
sequence every time the DMA chain reaches the end of the transfer (ie. max samples have been moved)

Once the DMA chain has expired the Core 1 should begin preprocessing.
Once the preprocess has finished the base address of the array will be passed through the inter-core FIFO
and Core 0 will finish the processing. At this point the array being filled with samples must be switched to
the other array such that overwrite of data being finally processed is impossible.

Once data has been processed it should be sent over USB (VCOM, TMI USB, etc..) and/or over the debug 3V3 UART
debug interface.


Sampling is initiated by an external trigger, which waits for a preset voltage threshold to set the shot.
The signal pulse time is ~4ms and begins full amplitude a few microseconds after detection. As such the
trigger should be set such that initial artifacts are not sampled.

Sampling will maintain for {TBD but something high 2^X} samples. This is driven by the output clock sent to
the ADC, this may also be PIO controlled but isn't really necessary. Core 1 should be pacing the transmission
and generating the ADC clock.

The output should include relevant outputs for the number of hydrophones/transducers in the array.

A debug menu or set of commands via UART/VCOMM should be provided, and this is run by Core 0.
This menu should allow configuration of some features that have not yet been determined

Very likely the digital section will return raw time difference data or phase difference data as well.
This should probably be configurable. This will allow further/better processing host-side.

For trig either LUTs or CORDIC in fixed point should be used.